# Release of the C ++ / Qt and QML application deployment utility CQtDeployer v1.5.0

This is the first major update in 2021. CQtDeployer 1.5 contains many useful improvements and help files. The biggest improvements are the addition of the ability to package deb packages, and the ability to use your own packaging template for the qt install framework.

## Complete list of all changes

## CQtDeployer 1.5.0
### New features
- Added new theme of qif installer "quasarDark".
- Added support of work with custom template for qif option.
- Added support of debian packages with.
- Added support icons for targets. now the icon option work with targets but not packages.
- Added support of the control custom translation files. 
- Added support the deploy nonexecutable data. (extraData option)
- Added envirement variables for deployed applications.
- Added support of the generate deb packages.
- Added support of the generate zip arrhives.
- Added support create a qif installer using custom template
- Added command of init default qif of deb template (getDefaulttemplate)
- Added support of import custom launch scripts
- Added support qt installer framework 4.0 

### Fixes
- Fixed stability for the deploySystem option on windows
- Fixed verbose log.
- Fixed general output log.
- Fixed crossdeploy of the arm distributions. 
- bug fixes and improvements.


### New Envirement Variables
- CQT_RUN_FILE - This variable contains path to the run script of the using application.
- CQT_PKG_ROOT - This variable contains path to root of the current package.

### New parameters
- zip - create a ZIP archive for deployable programs
- deb - Create the deb package for deployment programm
- homepage - Sets the homepage url for a package
- noQt - Ignors the error of initialize of a qmake. Use only if your application does not use the qt framework
- allowEmptyPackages -  Allows configure the empty packages.  
- getDefaultTemplate - Extracts defaults deb or qif templates.
- tr -  Adds qm files into the translations folder.
- extraData - Adds the extra files or directories like a target. The selected directory will be copy to the extraDataOut location with save own structure.
- extraDataOut - Sets path to extra data files out directory.
- prefix - Sets the prefix for the package relatively a target directory
- homePage - Sets the homepage url for a package
- binPrefix - Sets prefix for bin option.


### Deprecated and removed options
- deploySystem-with-libc - instead of this option use the deploySystem option.
- allQmlDependes - instead of this option use the qmlDir option.

## Detailed analysis of the most interesting changes.

Create a independet deb packages. This features is very conveniently if you want to create server application.
For example i need to create simple server for my simple game. 
And my steps:
* build my application in the release mode.
* run cqtdeployer with deb option.

```
cqtdeployer -bin mySimpleServer deb -qmake ~/Qt/5.15.2/gcc_64/bin/qmake
```
Ьy SimpleServer depends only on qt, so it was enough for me to specify only the path to qmake for my application.

It is all!!!. And i get the workly deb package.

So lets see what contains the generated deb package.




# To be completed
